CSCI-653 High Performance Computing -- Fish schooling in complex geometries
Participants: Hao Cheng
## 0. Problem description:
We have a basic fish schooling model, which includes: alignment, attraction, and noise terms to model the social interaction within the school. The hydrodynamics interaction is modelled by a far-field dipole, which means each focal fish will be affected, both translationally and rotationally, by the local flow disturbances generated by all the swimmers in the group. In this setup, we will let one fish act as the informed one, to know which direction to go (preference direction). This is implemented through a first-order linear controller, responding to the difference between the current heading direction and the preference direction. And the last and most important step is to use reinforcement learning (RL) to train the leader fish to lead the entire group of fish toward the specified destination more efficiently.

## 1. Simulation methods:
Euler–Maruyama method to get a numerical solution of the Stochastic differential equations. Since stochasticity is involved in the swimmer's equations of motion, we will run multiple Monte-Carlo simulations (MCs); the number depends on the data acquisition requirement of RL. The MCs will be run using distributed computing through the OpenMPI platform on CARC. Data visualisation and analysis might include the heat map of the spatial probability density distribution, correlation in the velocity of focal fish, etc. All the codes that are used in this project, including some existing code, are in Python and MATLAB.

 ## 2. Expected results:
 We expect that there is an optimal strategy for the leader fish to guide the entire fish school to the destination much more efficiently than the linear controller, which acts as a comparison for all the RL results. And through this, we can study the basic mechanism of why it is efficient through the information propagation speed, etc.
